

Out of Band (OOB) Delivery to authenticatee 

is a process of delivering an OTP to the end user. For best security, the delivery
channel should not use same hardware that is used for business transactions.
For instance, if an RSA one-time-passcode (OTP) is delivered on demand from an
RSA web site to your browser, it would not be considered as strong as if you
read the RSA OTP from your physical SecurID token. When the browser is used to
perform business transactions as well as to retrieve and display the OTP, it is
subject to the same risks as the browser session.

 

Out of Band (OOB) Submit to authenticator

is a process of user providing an OTP to the Wells Fargo for validation. Ideally,
the “something you have” factor should not be submitted to authenticator by the
same hardware that is performing business transactions.  For example, when RSA Token is submitted by
the browser to a web site the OTP is still vulnerable to the Man in the browser
attack, because malware on the machine performing transaction can intercept the
submitted OTP. New ideas and solutions are developing in this space.

 

Platform Security

requires defines the environment under which the application generating “something you have” is
running. If the platform is not considered secure, then malicious processes
running on the insecure platform can intercept the authentication factor.

 

Secure Delivery 

that some secret is passed securely between the user and the authentication
system when OOB is used. Strong provisioning and management of OOB channel is a
pre-condition required for secure delivery. For example the OOB SMS text does
not support secure delivery because it OTP is not encrypted in transit.

 

High Entropy requirement

is important to the “something you know” factor but in many cases it also
applied to the “something you have” factor. The probability for an attacker to
guess the factor should be less than 2-14 (1 time in 16384 attempts)
[1]. For example, OTP send to the user’s phone or digital device
fingerprint should meet the high entropy requirement.

 

Device Security

different devices have different levels of device security
from physical to application level of the OSI model. FIPS 140-2 standard
identifies requirements that make devices much more difficult to crack.  Low device security circumvents device
uniqueness allowing an attacker to copy the device.

